WebSockets provide a way to establish a persistent, full-duplex communication channel over a single TCP connection between the client (typically a web browser) and the server.

axios.get is not a persistent connection and it will close after every request
It does a 3 way handshake.

WebSockets are a persistent connection. It will keep the connection open even after the request is closed.
It also does a 3 way handshake but the connection is not closed after the request is closed.

full duplex means both the client and the server can send and receive data at the same time.
TCP connection and UDP connections are most common.


HTTP and Websockets use HTTP protocol.

OSI model 

Why do we need websockets?
For the Real time communication(RTC)
Can't use http after every 5ms as it will be slow as we will need to send multiple requests after every 5ms.

Websockets won't send multiple requests as it will keep the connection open.
Websockets are a persistent connection.
So server can send data every 5ms for example when large amount of data needs to be sent very frequently.


Use Cases for WebSockets:
- Real-Time Applications: Chat applications, live sports updates, real-time gaming, and any application requiring instant updates can benefit from WebSockets.
- Live Feeds: Financial tickers, news feeds, and social media updates are examples where WebSockets can be used to push live data to users.
- Interactive Services: Collaborative editing tools, live customer support chat, and interactive webinars can use WebSockets to enhance user interactio

In HTTP server can't initiate a request as it needs browser to initiate the request.
but in websockets server can send data to the client.

HTTP can use polling/long polling to do so in case you are restricted to use HTTP.
Polling/Long Polling means asking the server if it has any new data for the client.

Websockets are not stateless. 
they are sticky stateful.

Sockets cannot be stored in DB. 
video 1hr:40

Thats why scaling websockets is hard.


For sending multiple requests use Hopscotch/postwoman
